Adding CBOR Headers and Serialization (#140)
ietf-wg-jose/json-web-proof: draft-ietf-jose-json-web-proof.md

.# Abstract

The JOSE set of standards established JSON-based container formats for Keys, Signatures, and Encryption.  They also established IANA registries to enable the algorithms and representations used for them to be extended.  Since those were created, newer cryptographic algorithms that support selective disclosure and unlinkability have matured and started seeing early market adoption. The COSE set of standards likewise does this for CBOR-based containers, focusing on the needs of environments which are better served using CBOR, such as constrained devices and networks.

> This document defines a new container format similar in purpose and design to JSON Web Signature (JWS) and COSE Signed Messages called a _JSON Web Proof (JWP)_.  Unlike JWS, which integrity-protects only a single payload, JWP can integrity-protect multiple payloads in one message.  It also specifies a new presentation form that supports selective disclosure of individual payloads, enables additional proof computation, and adds a protected header to prevent replay.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document defines a new container format similar in purpose and design to JSON Web Signature (JWS) and COSE Signed Messages called a _JSON Web Proof (JWP)_. 
Unlike JWS, which integrity-protects only a single payload, JWP can integrity-protect multiple payloads in one message.
It also specifies a new presentation form that supports selective disclosure of individual payloads, enables additional proof computation, and adds a protected header to prevent replay.
```

{mainmatter}

# Introduction

The JOSE specifications are very widely deployed and well supported, enabling use of cryptographic primitives with a JSON representation.  JWTs [@RFC7519] are one of the most common representations for identity and access claims.  For instance, they are used by the OpenID Connect and Secure Telephony Identity Revisited (STIR) standards.  Also, JWTs are used by W3C's Verifiable Credentials and are used in many decentralized identity systems.

> With these new use cases, there is an increased focus on adopting privacy-protecting cryptographic primitives.  While such primitives are still an active area of academic and applied research, the leading candidates introduce new patterns that are not currently supported by JOSE or COSE.  These new patterns are largely focused on two areas: supporting selective disclosure when presenting information and minimizing correlation through the use of Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) in addition to traditional signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With these new use cases, there is an increased focus on adopting privacy-protecting cryptographic primitives.
While such primitives are still an active area of academic and applied research, the leading candidates introduce new patterns that are not currently supported by JOSE or COSE.
These new patterns are largely focused on two areas: supporting selective disclosure when presenting information and minimizing correlation through the use of Zero-Knowledge Proofs (ZKPs) in addition to traditional signatures.
```

# Background

> A _JSON Web Proof (JWP)_ is very similar to a JWS [@RFC7515] or COSE Signed Message [@RFC8152], with the addition that it can contain multiple individual secured payloads instead of a single one.  JWP-supporting algorithms are then able to separate and act on the individual payloads contained within.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A _JSON Web Proof (JWP)_ is very similar to a JWS [@RFC7515] or COSE Signed Message [@RFC8152], with the addition that it can contain multiple individual secured payloads instead of a single one.
JWP-supporting algorithms are then able to separate and act on the individual payloads contained within.
```

# JWP Header

> A JWP Header is a set of named Header Parameters which describes the
> JWP. These Header Parameters may be specific to the proof applied to
> the JWP, they may identify the party forming that proof, they may
> describe the application purpose and format of the JWP, as well as
> provide other potential metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A JWP Header is a set of Header Parameters that apply to the JWP.
These Header Parameters may be specific to the proof applied to
the JWP, they may identify the party issuing the proof, and they may
describe the application purpose and format of the JWP, as well as
provide other potential metadata.
```

all Header Parameters not defined by this specification
MUST be ignored when not understood.

> ## Header Parameter Labelling Requirements

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Header Parameter Labeling Requirements
```

As labels are the mechanism for semantically distinguishing parameter
names, it is important to describe the mechanism to reduce the risk
of conflicts.

> There are three strategies for labelling header parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three strategies for labeling header parameters:
```

1. Registered parameter labels. These labels are coordinated through
the IANA "JSON Web Proof Header Parameters" registry, which protects

> against a parameter having the same label.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
against parameters having the same label.
```

2. Collision-resistant parameter labels. These labels are not
coordinated through IANA, but are otherwise namespaced to prevent
conflict. One example would a string label representing the URI of a
controlled resource, such as the HTTPS-hosted documentation of the
header parameter.

3. Private parameter labels. These labels are not coordinated through
IANA or another party, but are expected to only be used for testing
or in closed environments.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

These classes of Header Parameters are intentionally parallel to those in Section 4 of [@RFC7515].

```

any processing of this parameter is performed by the JWP application.
Use of this Header Parameter is OPTIONAL.

> For COSE Protected Headers, `typ` MAY instead be an integer value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For COSE Protected Headers, `typ` MAY also instead be an integer value
```

The `crit` (critical) Header Parameter indicates that extensions to
this specification and/or [@!I-D.ietf-jose-json-proof-algorithms]
are being used that MUST be understood and processed.
Its value is an array listing the Header Parameter labels
present in the JWP Header that use those extensions. For JSON Protected

> Headers this is a list of strings, while a CBOR protected header may
> be a list containing string and int values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Headers this is a list of strings, while a CBOR protected headers
it is a list containing string and/or int values.
```

Author: tweaking language slightly

<{{./fixtures/build/bbs-holder.json.jwp.wrapped}}>
Figure: JSON Serialization of Presentation

## CBOR Serialization

> The CBOR serialization provides a compact binary representation of a
> JWP for bandwidth and space-constrained environments. The
> serialization consists of two optionally-tagged arrays, representing
> issued and presented forms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CBOR serialization provides a compact binary representation of a JWP.
The serialization consists of two arrays, representing issued and presented forms.
```

The protected headers MUST be CBOR formatted for CBOR serialization.

> This includes both the issued and presented headers in presented form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This includes both the issued and presented headers in the presented form.
```

The issued form consists of a three-element array, while the
presented form consists of a four-element array.

If an individual payload has been omitted, it is represented by the
CBOR value `nil`. Payloads MUST be included unless the application
is using detached payloads, which is represented by setting the
`payloads` value as `nil`.¶

> Two generalized tags are defined for representing issued and
> presented JWP. Applications MAY use their own tags to represent other
> specific types of JWP, possibly as an alternative to `typ`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two tags are defined for representing issued and presented JWPs.
Applications MAY use their own tags to tag other specific types of JWPs.
```

``` cddl
CBOR_JWP_Issued = [
       IssuerHeader : serialized_map,
       payloads : [payload] / nil,
       proofs : [bstr]
   ]

CBOR_JWP_Presented = [
      PresenterHeader : serialized_map,
      IssuerHeaders : serialized_map,
      payloads : [payload] / nil,
      proofs : [bstr]
   ]

empty_or_serialized_map = bstr .cbor header_map

payload = bstr / nil

Tagged_CBOR_JWP_Issued = #6.xxx (CBOR_JWP_Issued)

> Tagged_CBOR_JWP_Presented = #6.xxx (CBOR_JWP_Presented)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tagged_CBOR_JWP_Presented = #6.yyy (CBOR_JWP_Presented)
```

### Registration Template {#HdrTemplate}

Header Parameter Name:
: The descriptive name of the parameter.
  (e.g. "Key Identifier").

Header Parameter JSON Label:
: The string label requested within a
  JSON context. (e.g., `kid`).
  Because a core goal of this specification is for the resulting
  representations to be compact, it is RECOMMENDED that the label be
  short -- not to exceed 8 characters without a compelling reason to
  do so. This label is case sensitive, and it is RECOMMENDED to
  avoid upper-case characters. Labels may not match another
  registered names in a case-insensitive manner unless the
  Designated Experts state that there is a compelling reason to
  allow an exception. This registry value SHOULD be supplied, but
  MAY be omitted if this header parameter will never be formatted
  as JSON.

Header Parameter CBOR Label:
: The string or integer label requested

>   within a CBOR context (e.g. `4`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  within a CBOR context (e.g. `2`).
```

  (e.g., postal address, email address, home page URI) may also be
  included.

Specification Document(s):
: Reference to the document or documents
  that specify the parameter, preferably including URIs that can be
  used to retrieve copies of the documents. An indication of the
  relevant sections may also be included but is not required.

### Initial Registry Contents {#HdrContents}

This section registers the Header Parameters defined in
(#RegisteredHeaderParameterLabels) in this registry.

#### Algorithm Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Algorithm
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `alg`
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 1
* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Issued, Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#algDef) of this specification

#### Key ID Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Key Identifier
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `kid`
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 2
* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Issued, Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#kidDef) of this specification

#### Type Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Type
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `typ`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 16

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 3
```

* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Issued, Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#typDef) of this specification

#### Critical Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Critical
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `crit`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 4
```

* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Issued, Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#critDef) of this specification

#### Issuer Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Issuer
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `iss`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 8

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 5
```

* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Issued, Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#issDef) of this specification

#### Audience Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Audience
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `aud`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 17

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 6
```

* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#audDef) of this specification

#### Nonce Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Nonce
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `nonce`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 18

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 7
```

* Header Parameter Usage Location(s): Presented
* Change Controller: IETF
* Specification Document(s): (#nonceDef) of this specification

#### Claims Header Parameter

* Header Parameter Name: Claims
* Header Parameter JSON Label: `claims`

> * Header Parameter CBOR Label: 19

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Header Parameter CBOR Label: 8
```

* Change Controller: IETF
* Provisional registration? No

> #### The application/jwp+json Media Type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### The application/jwp+cbor Media Type
```
